---
source: living_into_community_cultivating_practices_that_sustain_014.mp3
---

questions for discussion and reflection embracing gratitude as a way of life, what rituals or rhythms of gratitude could we establish that would keep us mindful of its importance? How can we work to create a culture of noticing what is good, which complications of gratitude or most troublesome within community, how have we addressed them effectively? What else could be done, what attitudes and assumptions in our lives congregation or community support in gratitude, and dissatisfaction in what ways are we addressing personal and communal inclinations towards envy and grumbling? What are we doing and church family or community that we could build on to deepen the practice of gratitude making and keeping promises in our congregational or community life where have we seen specific expressions of fidelity or promise? Keeping in the face of difficult challenges, what are we doing and our congregation or community to help people keep their promises? And follow through on the commitments they have made? What contemporary issues or values do we need to confront in order to strengthen our fidelity to God and others? What are the most important promises we have made in shaping our families, churches, and communities? Are there tears in the fabric of our life together that come from betrayals or deceptions? How are we moving toward repairing the damage? What resources do we have to help us move toward restoration living truthfully? What features of our congregational or community life help us be truthful? What dynamics make it hard for us to be truthful? What are we doing to become a truth is shaped community? How could we invite our community or congregation into a deeper or more mature level of truthfulness? What areas of dishonesty or self deception do we need to address? What structures do we have in place to help us be more truthful about our struggles, situations, needs, and relationships? What structures could we establish practicing.

hospitality and beyond, who are strangers in our community that need welcome when we're offering, are enjoying hospitality. Which other practices are flourishing as we think about difficulties we've encountered, an offering is receiving hospitality? What other practices or their deformations have come into play, how might we address these difficulties? What are we and our personal lives? Families, congregation, or community already doing to offer welcome? What can we build on to strengthen our practice of hospitality?